# Russia-vs-Ukraine-loss-for-humanity

Well a war is one of the most complex and catastrophic act of mankind which has being carried away since time immemorial and unfortunately it will further travel ahead to future generations because war starts due to emotions it might be envy : India vs Pakistan or proving one's hegemony : Iraq vs Iran or greed or vengeance: US led coalition invasion of Iraq, Syria, Libya, Afghanistan.
Or at times to sustain your own hegemony: Saudi led coalition intervention in Yemen civil war. But...... What happens when war isn't for proving  or maintaining anything it's not for greed,vengeance,dominance it's just for ego where though one side knew that they are weak but had a thought to join an alliance  of so called ellites (European union  and nato )which could have humiliated the other side. Yes the one which is weaker in the case mentioned above is Ukraine it's might is nowhere near to that of the other side well it won't require lots of calculation to let you know the other side which is mentioned to be powerful above is none other than Russia once a mighty superpower formerly called as Union of Soviet Socialist Republic and Ukraine was also once a part of it. Russian economy is 1.9 trillion USD and Ukraine's economy stands at 181 billion USD this makes russian economy 10 times or a bit greater than 10 Times to that of Ukranian economy. To win a war you need money,armed personel, technological aid etc....which Russia has in abundance. The Russian defence's capability is considered to be one of the best in world ranked 2nd only after USA and above China hence provoking Russia was always a suicide mission.

But being powerful nowhere gives you the right to cross the border invade your weaker neighboring countries kill them,burn their houses, torture them,rape their women at times even men. What's happening in ukraine from last 100 days is horrific and a blot on humanity. Mysterious mass graves have been found across Russia occupied Ukrainian territories where thousands of graves have appeared suddenly which has been captured in satellite pictures thus proving how bloody the war has become. The war has seen various instances where women were raped even kids weren't spared. Hospitals have been shelled killing patients and their families doctors and nurses. Thousands still remain missing with their fates still hanging. Both the sides have helled prisoners captured during war who have been tortured. Food supplies and and other important supplies like medicine and medical equipments have been blocked purposely by the Russian forces. Russian occupied territories have seen a complete blockade of internet thus leaving the area completely isolated from the world hence what's happening exactly in there remains mostly a mystery until unless someone brave enough records and leaks it somehow. Even in Russia who have asked the questions regarding war have been detained under the new law passed in March. Internationally the war has sent shockwaves jeopardizing the economic recovery incurred by pandemic. The war has risked not only the Russian population with sanctions which have pushed russian business away from bussines ecosystem and in Russian homeland seen withdrawal of nearly thousand western companies putting their shutters down thus putting a question on livelihoods of millions of Russians and withdrawals of hundreds of billions of usd investment from Russia and sealing a 1 trillion USD russian assets overseas or Ukranians with war destruction but it has risked the lives of billion others who might get effected due to disruption in supply chain. Hyperinflation is already a huge issue and since the beginning of war the fuel prices have gone up which were already volatile before war. As war advances and fuel price further goes up it might increase the production and transportation costs thus making livelihood more expensive at times where uncertainty looms over the questions of how to arrange food shelter and clothing. Hunger index is already rising the deaths due shortage of food and other important supplies might further get a hold due to the war. Various countries have already started facing food shortages which might worsen. Various European countries which relied on russian oil and gas face uncertainty due to adherence to sanctions and if adhered to sanctions then to arrange an alternative to meet the demands of the country by the alternative of russian fuel and energy. Another threat which looms over the heads of the world is use of weapons of mass destruction in the war which might have long lasting effect on the population and the environment. The war has also casted a question on the lives on the carrier of nearly hundred thousand international students who were studying in ukraine by paying huge amount of fees of which handsome chunk of students having education loan over their heads which further adds stars in their anxiety.

Coming by the data the Russo Ukranian war has caused one of the fastest growing refugee crisis since world war 2 with more than  6.7 million Ukranian fleeing the country and a third of population displaced. The war has caused more than 50000 deaths nearly 20000 injuries and losses worth more than 60 billion USD. 

The war is one of the most catastrophic act which mankind has ever committed or will ever commit. War might be quite easy to start but can never be easy to stop let's hope for peace and justice across the world
